DOCS-12822-http-authentication-kt (#1741)
mulesoft/docs-connectors: http/1.6/modules/ROOT/pages/http-authentication.adoc

> = Configure HTTP Requests Authentication - Mule 4

Reviewer: ```suggestion
= Configure HTTP Request Authentication - Mule 4
```

:page-aliases: connectors::http/http-authentication.adoc

> The Anypoint Connector for HTTP (HTTP Connector) *Request* operation supports connecting a Mule client app to a service that requires any of the following types of authentication:

Reviewer: Do we need "supports connecting" or would "connects" work just as well?
```suggestion
The Anypoint Connector for HTTP (HTTP Connector) *Request* operation connects a Mule client app to a service that requires any of the following types of authentication:
```

* <<Basic Authentication>>
* <<Digest Authentication>>
* <<NTLM Authentication>>
* <<OAuth2 Authorization Code Grant Type Authentication>>
* <<OAuth2 Client Credentials Grant Type Authentication>>

If the target HTTP service of your request requires that you authenticate, provide the necessary credentials in the HTTP *Request* operation global configuration element. Mule runtime engine (Mule) uses the credentials you configured in the authorization header of the HTTP request.

You can also configure Transport Layer Security (TLS) to encrypt the OAuth credentials.

> To protect your API or Mule app from receiving requests from unauthorized access, use an API Manager policy, refer to the xref:api-manager::external-oauth-2.0-token-validation-policy.adoc[OAuth 2.0 Access Token Enforcement Using External Provider] documentation.

Reviewer: "from unauthorized access" or "from an unauthrorized source"? "unauthorized user"?
```suggestion
To protect your API or Mule app from receiving requests from an unauthorized source, use an API Manager policy. Refer to the xref:api-manager::external-oauth-2.0-token-validation-policy.adoc[OAuth 2.0 Access Token Enforcement Using External Provider] documentation.
```

[NOTE]

> In Anypoint Studio, for the HTTP *Request* operation global configuration, even though the *Expression* option is available for the *Authentication* field, the option is not an authentication method and should not be used as such.

Reviewer: This sentence has a lot of modifiers before it gets to the advice. How about something that gives the advice first and the reason after? For example:
```suggestion
In Anypoint Studio HTTP *Request* operation global configuration, do not use the *Expression* option for the *Authentication* field.
```
Also, is this a bug? Should this be tagged as more important than a NOTE?

== HTTP XML Authentication Setup

> If you are using Anypoint Studio (Studio), you can use the *Authentication* field for the HTTP *Request*

Reviewer: This sounds repetitive of the container topic...or at least the NOTE. I wonder if the NOTE information should be removed from the intro info in the container and emphasized in this subtopic instead?

Reviewer: Also, "you can use" rather than only "use"? Are their other ways to do this? If not...
```suggestion
If you are using Anypoint Studio (Studio), use the *Authentication* field for the HTTP *Request*
```

|===

> In addition, in Studio you can add an OAuth component's operation to the canvas, which automatically adds the following dependency to the project's pom.xml file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In addition, adding an OAuth component's operation to the canvas in Studio automatically adds the following dependency to the project's `pom.xml` file:
```

</dependency>
----

== Configure Basic Authentication

> The basic authentication method enables an HTTP user agent to provide a user name and password when making an HTTP request.

Reviewer: Per Term Presentation list, GLOBALLY change "user name" to "username".

> To configure the basic authentication for the HTTP *Request* operation refer to the following Mule app example that sends a request to the https://developer.github.com/v3[GitHub API] for user information. The GitHub API accepts requests for user information on port 443 to `+https://api.github.com/user+`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following Mule app example illustrates how to configure basic authentication for the HTTP *Request* operation by sending a request to the https://developer.github.com/v3[GitHub API] for user information. In this example, the GitHub API accepts requests for user information on port 443 to `+https://api.github.com/user+`.
```

> To comply with the basic authentication requirements, the Mule app provides the GitHub user name and password. You configure the HTTP *Request* operation to provide these credentials.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To comply with basic authentication requirements, the Mule app provides the GitHub user name and password. You configure the HTTP *Request* operation to provide these credentials.
```

Note that this example requires that you have a GitHub account.

. In Studio > *Mule Palette*, select *HTTP > Listener*.
. Drag *Listener* to the Studio canvas.
. Set *Path* to `/path`.
. Click the plus sign (*+*) next to the *Connector configuration* field to configure a global element that can be used by all instances of the source in the app.
. In the *HTTP Listener config* window, set the following fields:
+
* *Protocol*: `HTTP (Default)`
* *Host*: `All Interfaces [0.0.0.0] (default)`
* *Port*: `8081`
+
[start=6]
. Click *OK*.
. In the *Advanced* tab, set *Allowed methods* to `GET`.
. Drag an HTTP *Request* operation next to the HTTP *Listener* source.
. Click the plus sign (*+*) next to the *Connector configuration* field to configure a global element that can be used by all instances of the operation in the app.
. In the *HTTP Request configuration* window, set the following fields:
+

> ** *Name*: `HTTP_Request_configuration`.

Reviewer: No period
```suggestion
** *Name*: `HTTP_Request_configuration`
```

** *Protocol*: `HTTPS`
** *Host*: `api.github.com`
** *Port*: `443`
+
[start=11]
. Set *Authentication* to *Basic authentication*.
. Set *Username* to your GitHub username account.

> . Set *Password* to your GitHub password account, or a https://github.com/settings/tokens[personal access token].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Set *Password* to either your GitHub password account or a https://github.com/settings/tokens[personal access token].
```

. Set *Preemptive* to *True (Default)*.
. Click *OK*.
+
image::http-basic-authentication-1.png[HTTP Request basic authentication window configuration]
+
. In the HTTP *Request* configuration window, set *Method* to *GET (Default)*.
. Set *Path* to `/user`.
. In the *Mule Palette*, select *Core > Transform message*.

> . Drag *Transform message* component to the right of the HTTP *Request* operation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Drag the *Transform message* component to the right of the HTTP *Request* operation.
```

---
payload
----
+

. Save your Mule app.
. Click *Run > Run as > Mule Application*.

> . To call the API, in your internet browser send the following URL: `+http://localhost:8081/+`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. To call the API, type `+http://localhost:8081/+` in your internet browser.
```

}
----

> If the browser returns `HTTP GET on resource 'https://api.github.com:443/user' failed: unauthorized (401)`, you need to use a https://github.com/settings/tokens[personal access token] instead of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the browser returns `HTTP GET on resource 'https://api.github.com:443/user' failed: unauthorized (401)`, use a https://github.com/settings/tokens[personal access token] instead of
```

http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/http http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/http/current/mule-http.xsd
http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/ee/core http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/ee/core/current/mule-ee.xsd">
	<http:listener-config name="HTTP_Listener_config" >
		<http:listener-connection host="0.0.0.0" port="8081" />
	</http:listener-config>

	<http:request-config name="HTTP_Request_configuration" >
		<http:request-connection protocol="HTTPS" host="api.github.com" port="443" >
			<http:authentication >
				<http:basic-authentication username="GitHubusername" password="GitHubpassword" />
			</http:authentication>
		</http:request-connection>
	</http:request-config>

	<flow name="Authenticaterequests" >
		<http:listener config-ref="HTTP_Listener_config" path="/path">
		</http:listener>
		<http:request method="GET" config-ref="HTTP_Request_configuration" path="/user"/>
		<ee:transform >
			<ee:message >
				<ee:set-payload ><![CDATA[%dw 2.0
output application/json
---
payload]]></ee:set-payload>
			</ee:message>
		</ee:transform>
	</flow>
</mule>
----

== Configure Digest Authentication

> The digest authentication method enables a web server to negotiate credentials, such as username or password, with a user's web browser.

Reviewer: Are the credentials "negotiated" or just verified?
```suggestion
The digest authentication method enables a web server to verify user credentials via the user's web browser.
```

> To configure the digest authentication for the HTTP *Request* operation refer to the following example where a `GET` request is sent to the URL `+http://www.example.com/test+`, adding an authorization header with the provided username and password.

Reviewer: ditto suggested rewording/edits to Line 80
```suggestion
The following example shows how to configure the digest authentication for the HTTP *Request* operation by sending a `GET` request to the URL `+http://www.example.com/test+`, adding an authorization header with the provided username and password.
```
Repeat this active-voice pattern for all subsequent Configuration example introduction texts.

. In Studio, select the HTTP *Request* operation from your flow.
. Set *Method* to `GET` and *Path* to `test`.
. Click the plus sign (*+*) next to the *Connector configuration* field to configure a global element that can be used by all instances of the operation in the app.
. In the *HTTP Request configuration* window, set the following fields:
+

> ** *Name*: `HTTP_Request_configuration`.

Reviewer: GLOBALLY remove the period at the end of this repeated list item throughout the PR:
```suggestion
** *Name*: `HTTP_Request_configuration`
```

** *Protocol*: `HTTPS`
** *Host*: `example.com`
** *Port*: `8081`
+
[start=5]
. Set *Authentication* to *Digest authentication*.
. Set *Username* to `Username`.
. Set *Password* to `Password`.
. Click *OK*.
+
image::http-digest-authentication-1.png[HTTP Request digest authentication window configuration]

=== XML for Configuring Digest Authentication Example

The following code shows how to configure the digest authentication in XML:

[source,xml,linenums]
----
...
<http:request-config name="HTTP_Request_configuration"
      doc:name="HTTP Request configuration" >
    <http:request-connection host="example.com" port="8081" >
        <http:authentication >
            <http:digest-authentication
              username="Username"
              password="Password" />
        </http:authentication>
    </http:request-connection>
</http:request-config>

<flow name="digest_flow">
    ...
    <http:request config-ref="HTTP_Request_configuration"
    path="test"
    method="GET" />
</flow>
----

== Configure NTLM Authentication

NT LAN Manager (NTLM) authentication replaces the authentication protocol in Microsoft LAN Manager (LANMAN), an older Microsoft product.

> To configure the NTLM authentication for the HTTP *Request* operation refer to the following example where a `GET` request is sent to the URL `+http://www.example.com/test+`, adding an authorization header with the provided username and password.

Reviewer: Replace per wordings at Line 80 and 195; GLOBAL pattern.

. In Studio, select the HTTP *Request* operation from your flow.
. Set *Method* to `GET` and *Path* to `test`.
. Click the plus sign (*+*) next to the *Connector configuration* field to configure a global element that can be used by all instances of the operation in the app.
. In the *HTTP Request configuration* window, set the following fields:
+

> ** *Name*: `HTTP_Request_configuration`.

Reviewer: GLOBAL
```suggestion
** *Name*: `HTTP_Request_configuration`
```
I'll stop marking; please search for and replace.

. Optionally, set *Domain* and *Workstation*.
. Click *OK*.
+
image::http-NTLM-authentication-1.png[HTTP Request NTLM authentication window configuration]

=== XML for Configuring NTLM Authentication

The following code shows how to configure the NTLM authentication in XML:

[source,xml,linenums]
----
<http:request-config name="HTTP_Request_configuration"
     doc:name="HTTP Request Configuration" >
  <http:request-connection
     host="example.com"
     port="8081" >
     <http:authentication >
        <http:ntlm-authentication username="Username" password="Password" />
     </http:authentication>
  </http:request-connection>
</http:request-config>

<flow name="digest_flow">
    ...
    <http:request method="GET" doc:name="Request"
    config-ref="HTTP_Request_configuration"
    path="test"
     />

</flow>
----

== Configure OAuth2 Authorization Code Grant Type Authentication

The OAuth2 authorization code configures the OAuth 2.0 authorization code grant type. The OAuth authentication server holds the resources protected by OAuth. For example, API calls to the GitHub API can be authenticated through https://developer.github.com/v3/oauth/[GitHub server using OAuth].

> To configure the OAuth2 Authorization code grant type for the HTTP *Request* operation review the following example that shows how to create a Mule app to access a protected resource, GitHub user data, on the GitHub OAuth authentication server. The example covers how to:

Reviewer: ditto GLOBAL rewording

* Set up authorization
* Create a Mule app
* Run the Mule app

This example requires that you have a GitHub account.

=== Set Up Authorization

> To set up the authorization, refer to the steps on the following diagram:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To set up the authorization, follow these steps:
```

image::http-authentication-diagram-1.png[Set up authorization]

. Register the client application on the authentication server. +

>  The authentication server assigns a client ID and client secret to the Mule app. The app uses these credentials to identify itself to the authentication server. During the registration, provide the URL to the Mule app home page and the application callback URL.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The authentication server assigns a client ID and client secret to the Mule app. The app uses these credentials to identify itself to the authentication server. Provide the URL to the Mule app home page and the application callback URL.
```
I wonder if this step should use substeps to document the step(s) of providing the URLs?

. Log in to GitHub.
. https://github.com/settings/applications/new[Register the application] in your GitHub personal settings.
. On the *Register a new OAuth application* page, complete the following fields:
+
* *Application name*: `oauth-grant-code`.
* *Homepage URL*: `+http://localhost:8082+`.

> * *Authorization callback URL*: `+http://localhost:8082/callback+`.

Reviewer: no periods

[start=5]
. Click *Register application*.
+
GitHub creates a page for the registered application on `+https://github.com/settings/applications/<app number>+` that includes the GitHub-assigned client ID and client secret.

> 

Reviewer: BREAK to commit

> === Create the Mule App

Reviewer: I wonder if a task this important is "hidden" at this third level?

</dependency>
----
+
[start=11]

> . Select the HTTP *Request* operation from your flow and in the properties editor for *Connector Configuration*, click the plus sign (*+*).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Select the HTTP *Request* operation from your flow and, in the properties editor for *Connector Configuration*, click the plus sign (*+*).
```

. Set *Authentication* to *Authorization code grant type*.
. Set the following required fields:
+
* *External callback url*: `+http://myapp.mycompany.com:8082/callback+` +
The OAuth authentication server uses this URL to provide the authentication code to the Mule server so that the Mule server can retrieve the access token. This must be the externally visible address of the callback, not the local one.
* *Local authorization url*: `+https://localhost:8082/login+` +
This URL enables you to authenticate and grant access to the app for your account.
* *Authorization url*: `+https://github.com/login/oauth/authorize+` +
This URL redirects the user request from the Mule app to the authorization URL of the GitHub authentication server.
* *Client id* +
The client ID that GitHub provided when you registered the app.
* *Client secret* +
The client secret that GitHub provided when you registered the app.
* *Token url*: `+https://github.com/login/oauth/access_token+` +
The Mule client app sends the token to the token URL.
+
Additionally, you can set these optional fields:

* *Local callback url*: `+http://localhost:8082/callback+` +

> This URL matches the value you configured for *External callback URL* when registering the app in GitHub. This is the configuration of the server that Mule creates to receive the requests that a remote host sends to the `externalCallbackUrl`. External and internal callback URLs are the same, one URL enables you to create a server in the runtime (internal) and the other URL enables the internet (external) to see the server.

Reviewer: What does it mean when we say that the ext. and int. URLs are the same, but then go on to describe two different uses?
Do we mean that the same URL that creates also enables visibility?

* *Response Access Token*: `#[payload.access_token]` +
This DataWeave expression <<extracting-parameters-from-the-token-url-response,extracts an access token>>.
* *Response Refresh Token*: `#[payload.access_token]` +

> Use a similar DataWeave expression for the refresh token (`#[payload.refresh_token]`) if the provider you use sends a refresh token. In this example, however, GitHub doesn't actually use a refresh token.

Reviewer: Beginning with "similar" before introducing something is a little confusing: similar to what? Does this mean the same thing/what you intended:
```suggestion
If the provider you use sends a refresh token, use a similar DataWeave expression for the refresh token (`#[payload.refresh_token]`). 
```
I'd omit pointing out that our example does not include this optional field unless you do so closer to the actual example. Because we have introduced this as optional, so I'm guessing that the audience doesn't necessarily expect it in the example.

+
image::http-oauth-authentication-1.png[Configure Authorization code grant type authentication]
+
. Click *OK*.
. Save your Mule app.

=== Run the Mule Client App

> Before you deploy and run your Mule app, review the following diagrams that show the procedure of getting OAuth access token and returning token for data:

Reviewer: It's a little disorienting to start with the title "Run..." and then follow it directly with "Before you run...."
Label as a prerequisite?

More likely, "...the procedure of getting OAuth access token and returning token for data" is actually a separate task...in which case this task can begin with "After you get...and return..., you can run the client app...OH WAIT, I misunderstood this intro., which indicates that the audience might as well.

This all looks like 3 tasks to me:
1. Obtain an OAuth access token.
(with the caution that it will expire, so you have to hurry up and use it to...:
2. Use OAuth access token to request secured user data.
3. Run the client app.

Reviewer: Another approach is to put all the token stuff into a new topic before the Run topic: 
"=== Create the Mule App"
"=== Obtain Access to Secured Data"
"=== Run the Mule App"

Reviewer: Copyedit:
```suggestion
Before you deploy and run your Mule app, obtain an OAuth access token that you can use to request secured user data.
```

Reviewer: The rest of this task is only copyedited below...but consider breaking this all into 2 or 3 topics, as suggested.

image::http-authentication-diagram-2.png[Get OAuth access token diagram ]
. Submit an HTTP request for GitHub access to the client app.
. The client app redirects the request to the GitHub authentication server.
. GitHub requests login credentials.
. Log in an authorize the client app.
. The GitHub authentication server returns an access token.
. The client app listens for the next request.

image::http-authentication-diagram-3.png[Return token for data diagram]

. Request the secured user data using the access token.
. Redirect user data request.
. The client app gets the user data from the GitHub authentication server.

> . The client app listens for the next request.

Reviewer: If these become tasks, be sure to number only the actions taken by the user.

> To run the Mule client app and get the GitHub user data, perform the following steps before the access token expires:

Reviewer: Have we documented token expiration anywhere; do we need to provide a timespan here?

. In the *Package Explorer* window, right-click the project name and choose *Run as > Mule Application*.
+
The console shows the Mule app deploying.
+

> . In a browser, enter the local authorization URL `+http://localhost:8082/login+` to initiate the https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6749#section-4.1[OAuth2 dance].

Reviewer: Have we referred to this process as a "dance" earlier? Will this confuse anyone?

+
GitHub prompts you to log in.
+

> . Log in using your GitHub user name and password.

Reviewer: Per Term...List, GLOBAL "user name" > "username"

+
GitHub prompts you to authorize the application you registered to run.
+
image::http-authentication-githubpage.png[Github Authorize application page]
+
. Click *Authorize application*.
+
`Successfully retrieved access token` appears as body text in the browser you used to initiate the OAuth2 dance.

> . To return the token to get data, enter the following URL in a browser: +

Reviewer: Is it important to use "return the token" rather than "use the token"; will the audience not understand that you are using the token that you have just obtained?

. In Studio, select the HTTP *Request* operation from your flow.
. Click the plus sign (*+*) next to the *Connector configuration* field to configure a global element.
. Set *Authentication* to *Authorization code grant type*.
. Set *Scopes* to `access_user_details, read_user_files`.
+
image::http-oauth-scopes.png[Configure Scopes field for OAuth Authentication]
[start=5]
. Click *OK*.

In the *Configuration XML* editor, the `scopes` configuration looks like this:

[source,xml,linenums]
----
<http:authentication>
    <oauth:authorization-code-grant-type
        localCallbackUrl="http://localhost:8082/redirectUrl"
        externalCallbackUrl="http://myapp.mycompany.com:8082/callback"
        localAuthorizationUrl="https://localhost:8082/authorization"
        authorizationUrl="https://www.box.com/api/oauth2/authorize"
        clientId="your_client_id"
        clientSecret="your_client_secret"
        tokenUrl="https://www.box.com/api/oauth2/token"
        tlsContextFactory="TLS_Context"
        scopes="access_user_details, read_user_files" />
</http:authentication>
----

=== Configure OAuth2 Authorization Custom Parameters

> There are OAuth implementations that require or allow extra query parameters to be sent when calling the Authentication URL of the OAS. Configure these parameters for the OAuth2 authorization code grant type in the *Custom parameters* field:

Reviewer: GLOBALLY standardize the capitalization used in "OAuth2 authorization code grant type": is "authorization" init. capped, as part of a name, or lowercase, as part of the adjective phrase defining the type?

. In Studio, select the HTTP *Request* operation from your flow.
. Click the plus sign (*+*) next to the *Connector configuration* field to configure a global element.
. Set *Authentication* to *Authorization code grant type*.
. Set the following fields:
+
* *External callback url*: `+http://myapp.mycompany.com:8082/callback+`
* *Local authorization url*: `+http://localhost:8082/login+`
* *Authorization url*: `+https://github.com/login/oauth/authorize+`
* *Client id*: Client ID from your GitHub account

> * *Client decret*: Client secret from your GitHub account

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* *Client secret*: Client secret from your GitHub account
```

* *Token url*: `+https://github.com/login/oauth/access_token+`
[start=5]
. Set *Custom parameters* to *Edit inline*.
. Click the plus sign (*+*) to add a new custom parameter.
. Set *Key* to `box_device_id` and *Value* to `123142`.

> . Repeat step 6.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Repeat Step 6.
```

</http:request-config>
----

=== Configure OAuth2 Authorization Redirect URI

The https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6749[OAuth 2.0 specification] describes checking the redirect URI from the destination site of the redirect. The OAuth authentication server uses the URL to provide the authentication code to the Mule server for retrieving the access token. If you provide this URL, Mule creates an endpoint at the URL for storing the authentication code unless there’s already an endpoint registered to manually extract the authorization code.

> To override the redirect URI (external `redirect_uri`) configure the external redirect URI in the *External callback url* field, which is useful for deploying applications to CloudHub, for example. When you configure authentication, you can optionally configure the *Local callback url* field as well.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To override the redirect URI (external `redirect_uri`), configure the external redirect URI in the *External callback url* field, which is useful for actions such as deploying applications to CloudHub. When you configure authentication, you can optionally configure the *Local callback url* field as well.
```

> To create the endpoint for CloudHub, Mule has to create an endpoint for CloudHub in a different format, for example:

Reviewer: I don't understand this sentence: "to create the endpoint" Mule has to "create an endpoint"?
And "in a different format"? different from what?

`+https://<app>.cloudhub.io/<redirect Uri>+`

> To instruct Mule to create the endpoint for CloudHub in the correct format, include the *External callback url* field in your OAuth2 Authorization code grant type configuration.

Reviewer: Maybe we can omit the previous sentence and just use this one?
(note that Authorization is init. capped here and lowercased just above; standardize GLOBALLY)

=== Configure OAuth2 Authorization Extract Parameters

> After you obtained an authorization code from the authentication server, the OAuth dance makes a request to the token URL of the server to receive an access token.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After you obtain an authorization code from the authentication server, OAuth requests an access token from the token URL of the server.
```

> The format of the response to the token URL is not defined in the OAuth specification. Each implementation may return different response formats. By default, Mule expects the response to be in JSON format. When this is the case, HTTP requests knows how to extract the required information, as long as the following fields are specified:

Reviewer: GLOBALLY review your use of "response": a "request" goes "to" something and a "response" comes "from" something (or something "responds to" something else). 
As a beginning audience, I get confused by the direction intended when this narrative uses "response". You might check this with a peer to see if they think this might confuse other audiences.

Reviewer: Do you intend "may" (permission) or "might" (possibility), or "can" (ability)?

Reviewer: "HTTP requests knows" > "HTTP requests know"

* *Response access token* +
The JSON field is `access_token`.
* *Response refresh token* +
The JSON field is `refresh_token`.
* *Response expires in* +
The JSON field is `expires_in`.

> When the response is in JSON format, the parameters are automatically extracted and you can use xref:mule-runtime::dataweave.adoc[DataWeave expressions] to reference these values in the response to the request to the token URL.

Reviewer: Does "in the response to the request to the token URL" = "in the response from the token URL"?

When the response is not in JSON format, then you must first configure the connector so that it knows how to extract these values.

In the following example, HTTP Connector expects the response to have a `Content-Type` of `application/x-www-form-urlencoded`, so the body of the response is transformed into a map in the payload. You extract the values from the map through DataWeave expressions, such as `#[payload.access_token]` (the default value for the *Response access token* and *Response refresh token*).

> . In Studio, select the HTTP *Request* operation from your flow and in the properties editor for *Connector Configuration*, click the plus sign (*+*).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In Studio, select the HTTP *Request* operation from your flow and in the properties editor for *Connector Configuration*, and click the plus sign (*+*).
```

. Set *Authentication* to *Authorization code grant type*.
. Verify the default options for the following fields:
+
* *Response access token*: `#[payload.access_token]`
* *Response refresh token*: `#[payload.refresh_token]`
* *Response expires in*: `#[payload.expires_in]`

image::http-oauth-extractparameters.png[Configure Response access token, Response refresh token, and Response expires in fields for OAuth Authentication]
[start=4]
. Click *OK*.

> In the *Configuration XML* editor, the `responseAccessToken`,  `responseRefreshToken` and `responseExpiresIn` configurations look like these:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the *Configuration XML* editor, the `responseAccessToken`,  `responseRefreshToken`, and `responseExpiresIn` configurations look like this:
```

</http:request-config>
----

=== Configure OAuth2 Authorization Refresh Token When

> The access token you obtain from the token URL eventually expires. The length of time the token is valid depends on the authentication server implementation. After the access token expires, instead of going through the whole process once again, you can retrieve a new access token by using the refresh access token provided by the token URL response.

Reviewer: Perhaps this info should be included in the earlier text about token expiration.

Reviewer: Alternative
```suggestion
The access token you obtain from the token URL eventually expires. The length of time the token is valid depends on the authentication server implementation. After the access token expires, you can use the refresh access token provided by the token URL response, rather than obtaining a new token.
```

> Mule manages this behavior automatically. By default, when an HTTP request is executed, if the response has a status code of 403, Mule calls the token URL and gets a new access token.

Reviewer: So, what we have just said at Line 615 is a little confusing: if Mule does this automatically, then we need not instruct the audience to do so.
Or...are these two different things: [Mule/you?] using the refresh access token vs. requesting a new one? Clarify.

Perhaps we should condense Lines 615-19 into something like this:

"The access token you obtain from the token URL eventually expires, based on your authentication server implementation. Using a DataWeave expression, you can configure Mule to automatically [[use the refresh access token provided by the token URL response? request a new access token?]], saving you the trouble of obtaining a new token."

You can configure when Mule performs one of these requests to obtain a new access token using a xref:mule-runtime::dataweave.adoc[DataWeave expression]. The expression is evaluated against the response of the HTTP Request call.

> . In Studio, select the HTTP *Request* operation from your flow and in the properties editor for *Connector Configuration*, click the plus sign (*+*).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In Studio, select the HTTP *Request* operation from your flow and, in the properties editor for *Connector Configuration*, click the plus sign (*+*).
```

</http:request-config>
----

When a request authorization fails, the response contains an XML node named `status` with value `'unauthorized'`. In the previous example, the DataWeave expression evaluates that condition. When the condition evaluates to true, Mule sends a request to the token URL to retrieve a new access token.

=== Configure HTTPS for OAuth Authorization

When you need to use HTTPS for the communication with the authentication server, such as in a production environment, apply HTTPS encoding to the OAuth credentials in all requests, including those for the:

* *Local authorization url*
* *Authorization url*
* *Redirect url*
* *Token url*

To configure HTTPS for OAuth Authorization code grant type:

>  . In Studio, select the HTTP *Request* operation from your flow and in the properties editor for *Connector Configuration*, click the plus sign (*+*).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 . In Studio, select the HTTP *Request* operation from your flow and, in the properties editor for *Connector Configuration*, click the plus sign (*+*).
```

. Set *TLS Configuration* to *Global Reference*.
+
image::http-oauth-tls-1.png[TLS Configuration field set to Global reference]
[start=3]
. Click the green plus sign (*+*) next to the field to create a new TLS context.
. For *Trust Store Configuration*, set the following fields:
+
* *Path*: `your_trust_store`
* *Password*: `your_password`
[start=5]
. For *Key Store Configuration*, set the following fields:
+
* *Path*: `your_keystore_path`
* *Key Password*: `your_key_password`
* *Password*: `your_password`

image::http-oauth-tls-2.png[TLS Context global configuration settings window]
[start=6]
. Click *OK*.

> In the *Configuration XML* editor, the `tls:context`, `tls:trust-store` and `tls:key-store` configurations look like these:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the *Configuration XML* editor, the `tls:context`, `tls:trust-store`, and `tls:key-store` configurations look like this:
```
GLOBALLY change "these" to "this" in this repeated sentence type. Although there are three configurations, the "look" is a single presentation.

    </tls:context>
----

[[oauth2cc]]
== Configure OAuth2 Client Credentials Grant Type Authentication

The OAuth authentication server (OAS) is a server that holds the resources that are protected by OAuth. For example, the Box server provides an API with OAuth authentication.

The client application (CA) is the server that tries to access a protected resource that belongs to a resource owner (RO). For example, a Mule server tries to access the resources that belong to a Box user, and the resources are in a Box server.

> In this case, the RO is also the CA. This means that the CA is implicitly authorized by the RO and makes the whole procedure a lot simpler.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this case, the RO is also the CA. This means that the CA is implicitly authorized by the RO, which makes the whole procedure a lot simpler.
```

> The following diagram describes the relationship between both CA and OAS:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following diagram illustrates the relationship between CA and OAS:
```

image::http-authentication-diagram-4.png[OAuth2 dance between CA and OAS]

> To access protected resources:

Reviewer: This list introduction does not introduce an actual list: only the first item completes the intro, so I suggest plain paragraphs here:
```suggestion
To access protected resources, the CA must register...
```

> . The CA must register an app to the OAS server. When this occurs, the OAS assigns credentials to the CA that it can later use to identify itself: `client ID` and `client secret`. The OAS must also provide a `Token URL`, to which the CA can later send HTTP requests to retrieve an `access token` that is required when accessing the protected resources.

Reviewer: Per above:
```suggestion
...an app to the OAS server. When this occurs, the OAS assigns credentials to the CA that the CA can later use to identify itself: `client ID` and `client secret`. The OAS must also provide a `Token URL`, to which the CA can later send HTTP requests to retrieve an `access token` that is required when accessing the protected resources.
```

. The CA makes a request to the `Token URL` of the OAS, containing its client ID to prove its identity. As a response, the OAS grants it an `access token`.

> . With the access token, the CA is now free to access the protected resources in the OAS as long as it includes the access token in the requests. Depending on the policies defined by the OAS, the token may eventually expire.

Reviewer: Per above:
When the CA makes a request to the `Token URL` of the OAS, containing its client ID to prove its identity, the OAS grants the CA an `access token`. With the access token, the CA can access the protected resources in the OAS by including the access token in its requests. Depending on the policies defined by the OAS, the token eventually expires.

> Client credentials grant type is meant to be used by a client application to grant access to an application on behalf of itself, rather than on behalf of resource owner in the OAS. To get an access token all you need is the application credentials.

Reviewer: Please review references to "it" and "itself" to see if your audience could possibly be confused by the reference.
Here, I wondered if "used by a CA to grant access to an application on behalf of itself" meant "another" application instead of "an".

Reviewer: Comma after "To get an access token,"

> To configure the OAuth2 Authorization code grand type for the HTTP *Request* operation, set the *Authentication* field to *Client credentials grant type*:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To configure the OAuth2 Authorization code grant type for the HTTP *Request* operation, set the *Authentication* field to *Client credentials grant type*:
```

. In Studio, select the HTTP Request Configuration global element where you want to use the OAuth client credentials grant type.
. Set *Authentication* to *Client credentials grant type*.
. Set the following fields:
+
* *Client id* +
The client ID that GitHub provided when you registered the app.
* *Client secret* +
The client secret that GitHub provided when you registered the app.
* *Scopes*  +
Scopes in OAuth are like security roles.
* *Token URL* +
The Mule client app sends the token to the token URL.

image::http-oauthcc-authentication-1.png[Client credentials grant type configuration]

[start=4]
. Click *OK*.

> When the Mule app deploys, it tries to retrieve an access token. If the Mule app is not able to retrieve an access token, it fails in the deployment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the Mule app is deployed, it tries to retrieve an access token. If the Mule app is not able to retrieve an access token, deployment fails.
```

</http:request-config>
----

=== Configure OAuth2 Client Credential Extract Parameters

> The same behavior of extracting parameters from the token URL that applies to OAuth2 authorization code grant type applies for client credentials grant type:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The same behavior of extracting parameters from the token URL that applies to the OAuth2 authorization code grant type applies to the client credentials grant type as well:
```

> . In Studio, select the HTTP *Request* operation from your flow and in the properties editor for *Connector Configuration*, click the plus sign (*+*).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In Studio, select the HTTP *Request* operation from your flow and, in the properties editor for *Connector Configuration*, click the plus sign (*+*).
```

. Set *Authentication* to *Client credentials grant type*.
. Verify the default options for the following fields:
+
* *Response access token*: `#[payload.access_token]`
* *Response refresh token*: `#[payload.refresh_token]`
* *Response expires in*: `#[payload.expires_in]`

image::http-oauthcc-extractparameters.png[Configure Response access token, Response refresh token, and Response expires in fields for Client credentials grant type]
[start=4]
. Click *OK*.

> In the *Configuration XML* editor, the `responseAccessToken`,  `responseRefreshToken` and `responseExpiresIn` configurations look like these:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the *Configuration XML* editor, the `responseAccessToken`, `responseRefreshToken`, and `responseExpiresIn` configurations look like this:
```

[source,xml,linenums]
----
<http:request-config name="HTTP_Request_Configuration"
                   host="api.box.com" port="443" basePath="/2.0">
      <http:authentication>
          <oauth:client-credentials-grant-type
              clientId="CLIENT_ID"
          		clientSecret="CLIENT_SECRET"
          		tokenUrl="http://some.api.com/api/1.0/oauth/token"
          		scopes="access_user_details, read_user_files" />
      </http:authentication>
</http:request-config>
----

=== Configure OAuth2 Client Credential Refresh Access Token When

> The same behavior of extracting parameters from the token URL that applies to OAuth2 authorization code grant type applies for client credentials grant type:

Reviewer: ditto suggestion for LIne 779

. In Studio, select the HTTP *Request* operation from your flow and in the properties editor for *Connector Configuration*, click the plus sign (*+*).
. Set *Authentication* to *Client credentials grant type*.
. Set *Request Token When* to *Expression*.
. In the expression box, add the following DataWeave expression:
`#[payload.response.status == 'unauthorized']`

image::http-oauthcc-refreshtoken.png[Configure Response Token When field for OAuth2 Client credentials grant type]
[start=5]
. Click *OK*.

> In the *Configuration XML* editor, the `refreshTokenWhen`, configuration looks like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the *Configuration XML* editor, the `refreshTokenWhen` configuration looks like this:
```

[source,xml,linenums]
----
<http:request-config name="HTTP_Request_Configuration"
        host="api.box.com" port="443" basePath="/2.0">
    <http:authentication>
      <oauth:client-credentials-grant-type
          clientId="CLIENT_ID"
          clientSecret="CLIENT_SECRET"
          tokenUrl="http://some.api.com/api/1.0/oauth/token"
          scopes="access_user_details, read_user_files"
        refreshTokenWhen="#[payload.response.status == 'unauthorized']" />
    </http:authentication>
</http:request-config>
----

== Configure a Token Manager

To access authorization information for client credentials and authorization codes, configure a token manager:

> . In Studio, select the HTTP *Request* operation from your flow and in the properties editor for *Connector Configuration*, click the plus sign (*+*).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In Studio, select the HTTP *Request* operation from your flow and, in the properties editor for *Connector Configuration*, click the plus sign (*+*).
```

. Set *Authentication* to *Authorization code grant type*.
. Set *Token manager* to *Edit inline*.

> . Click the plus sign (*+*) to create a new configuration that references to an object store.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Click the plus sign (*+*) to create a new configuration that references an object store.
```

        </http:authentication>
    </http:request-config>
----

=== Token Manager - Access Authorization

> After you have a token manager associated with an authorization grant type you can use OAuth module operations anywhere in your Mule app flows to access information from an OAuth authorization.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After you have a token manager associated with an authorization grant type, you can use OAuth module operations anywhere in your Mule app flows to access information from an OAuth authorization.
```

> If you use client credentials or authorization code with a single resource owner, use the following OAuth module operations in a flow. These operations provide access to the OAuth authorization information from a token manager:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you use client credentials or an authorization code with a single resource owner, use the following OAuth module operations in a flow. These operations provide access to the OAuth authorization information from a token manager:
```

    key="#[vars.key]"/>
----

> If you use authorization code with multiple resource owners, use the following OAuth module operations:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you use an authorization code with multiple resource owners, use the following OAuth module operations:
```

    key="#[vars.key]"/>
----

> ==== Token Manager Examples

Reviewer: HERE

|Custom parameter extracted from the token URL response for resource owner `Peter` accessible through `vars.customParam` from DataWeave.
|===

=== Configure Token Manager Access Token Invalidation

When using a token manager, you can block a particular resource owner:

. In Studio, drag the OAuth module *Invalidate oauth context* operation to your flow.
. In the properties editor, set the token manager to point to the same token manager that your HTTP *Request* operation references when managing OAuth authentication.

> . Set *Resource owner id* to an expression that points to the resource owner you want to clear, for example: `#[vars.resourceOwnerId]`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Set *Resource owner id* to an expression that points to the resource owner you want to clear, for example, `#[vars.resourceOwnerId]`.
```

image::http-oauth-tokenmanager-2.png[Configure Token manager]

> In the *Configuration XML* editor, the `invalidate-oauth-context` configuration look like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the *Configuration XML* editor, the `invalidate-oauth-context` configuration looks like this:
```

[source,xml,linenums]
----
  <flow name="invalidateOauthContext" >
		<oauth:invalidate-oauth-context
      tokenManager="tokenManagerConfig"
       resourceOwnerId="#[vars.resourceOwnerId]">
		</oauth:invalidate-oauth-context>
	</flow>
----

> The *Invalidate oauth context* operation cleans up all of the OAuth information stored in the token manager.

Reviewer: "cleans up" = remove? reorganize? something else?
Try to avoid colocations: see style ref.

> When using multiple resource owners with a single token manager, if you want to clear only the OAuth information of one resource owner, then specify the resource owner ID in the Invalidate OAuth Context element.

Reviewer: Is the element a UI label? If so, format as such.

</flow>
----

=== Configure Token Manager Object Store

> By default, the token manager uses an in-memory object store to store the credentials. You can configure the token manager object store by using the *Object store* field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, the token manager uses an in-memory object store to store credentials. You can configure the token manager object store by using the *Object store* field.
```

> For further information about object stores, refer to the xref:object-store-connector::object-store-to-define-a-new-os.adoc[Configure a custom object store] documentation.

Reviewer: For more info about object stores, see the information about configuring a custom object store? The reference is to a very specific thing about object stores, rather than just "more information" in general.

Reviewer: Sentence lettercasing for the xref breaks up the sentence the xref is in, so I think you want...:
```suggestion
For further information about object stores, refer to the documentation about xref:object-store-connector::object-store-to-define-a-new-os.adoc[configuring a custom object store].
```
